# Getting Started
<br />

Table of contents |
----------------- |
[Installation](#Installation) |
[Configuration](#Configuration) |
[License](#License) |

<br />

### Intallation
You should install [FluentGraphQL with NuGet](https://www.nuget.org/packages/FluentGraphQL.Client):

    Install-Package FluentGraphQL.Client
    
Or via the .NET Core command line interface:

    dotnet add package FluentGraphQL.Client

Either commands, from Package Manager Console or .NET Core CLI, will download and install FluentGraphQL.Client and all required dependencies.

Query builder can be installed as standalone library:

[NuGet](https://www.nuget.org/packages/FluentGraphQL.Builder) or ```dotnet add package FluentGraphQL.Builder```   

<br />

### Configuration
Both client and builder projects need to have inversion of control containers existent at the application level.
In the future libraries might have it's own isolated containers if that might not be the case, but for now this is defined as required approach.
Main reason why containerless support is not yet implemented is modularity, which is prefered feature at this point of time, 
meaning that if there are requirenments for customizations, all dependencies can be replaced.

Considering the default .NET Core inversion of control system, client is registered using AddGraphQLClient extension method, by passing options implementation factory as argument.
```
    services.AddGraphQLClient(x =>
    {
        var options = new GraphQLOptions
        {
            AdminHeaderName = "some-header-name",
            AdminHeaderSecret = "my admin secret",
            NamingStrategy = NamingStrategy.SnakeCase,
            UseAdminHeader = true,                    
            HttpClientProvider = () =>
            {
                var httpClientFactory = x.GetRequiredService<IHttpClientFactory>();
                return httpClientFactory.CreateClient("GraphQL");
            }
        };

        return options;
    });
```

For options documentation please follow this link: [Options](https://github.com/mmaderic/FluentGraphQL/blob/master/Documentation/02.options.md)

<br />

### License
MIT License

Copyright (c) 2020 Mateo Maðeriæ

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.