# Using schema extensions
<br />

Table of contents |
----------------- |
[Actions](#Actions) |
[Functions](#Functions) |

<br />

As some GraphQL servers like Hasura GraphQL engine have support for cases where additional data manipulation is neccessary, 
support for some of these features is implemented by FluentGraphQL.

### Actions
What are actions? \
Actions are a way to extend Hasura’s schema with custom business logic using custom queries and mutations. \
Actions can be added to Hasura to handle various use cases such as data validation, data enrichment from external sources and any other complex business logic.
More detailed description can be found here: [Hasura actions](https://hasura.io/docs/1.0/graphql/core/actions/index.html)

How to define action objects please see: [Defining entities](https://github.com/mmaderic/FluentGraphQL/blob/master/Documentation/03.defining-entities.md)

In order to execute hasura action, builder has to create either query or mutation method construct. 
Query type actions can be executed as transactions with additional query constructs, as can mutation actions as part of mutation transactions.

If we would like to trigger some remote handler in order to send email, we can execute action:

```
var action = client.ActionBuilder().Query(new SendEmailAction
{
    Email = "some.mail@email.com",
    Subject = "some subject",
    Body = "this is a message."
});

var response = await client.ExecuteAsync(action);
```

Action response will be wrapped as ```IGraphQLActionResponse<TResult>``` containing information if the execution was successful along with the eventual error message from the handler.

<br />

### Functions
What are custom SQL functions? \
Custom SQL functions are user-defined SQL functions that can be used to either encapsulate some custom business logic or extend the built-in SQL functions and operators.
Hasura GraphQL engine lets you expose certain types of custom functions as top level fields in the GraphQL API to allow querying them using both queries and subscriptions.
More detailed description can be found here: [Hasura functions](https://hasura.io/docs/1.0/graphql/core/schema/custom-functions.html)

How to define function objects please see: [Defining entities](https://github.com/mmaderic/FluentGraphQL/blob/master/Documentation/03.defining-entities.md)

Function builder creates new query instance, having received function name and parameters, therefore it is possible to build function query like using standard query construct and execute it along with more queries as part of transaction or even subscribe to it.

```
var queryf = client.FunctionQueryBuilder(new SomeFunctionName
{
    SomeParameter = "some value"
})
.Limit(5)
.OrderBy(x => x.ReleaseDate)
.Select(x => new
{
    x.Id,
    x.Amount,
    x.ReleaseDate,
    Status = new 
    {
        x.Status.Name
    }
});    

var response = await client.ExecuteAsync(queryf);
```